How to Set Up and Run the LM Studio Discord Bot

Follow these steps to get your Discord bot running.

1. Prerequisites:

    Python 3.8 or newer.

    LM Studio installed and running on your computer.

    A Discord account.

2. Download a Model in LM Studio:

    Open LM Studio.

    Search for and download a model (e.g., Mistral 7B Instruct).

    Go to the "Local Server" tab (the <-> icon).

    Select the model you downloaded at the top.

    Click Start Server. You should see a message indicating the server is running and listening at an address like http://localhost:1234/v1.

3. Create a Discord Bot Application:

    Go to the Discord Developer Portal.

    Click "New Application" and give it a name.

    Go to the "Bot" tab on the left.

    Click "Reset Token" and copy the token. This is your DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN.

    Enable the "Message Content Intent" under "Privileged Gateway Intents".

4. Invite the Bot to Your Server:

    Go to the "OAuth2" -> "URL Generator" tab.

    Select the bot and applications.commands scopes.

    Under "Bot Permissions", select "Send Messages" and "Read Message History".

    Copy the generated URL, paste it into your browser, and invite the bot to your Discord server.

5. Set Up the Project:

    Save all the generated Python files (main.py, bot.py, llm_client.py) and requirements.txt in the same folder.

    Create a file named .env in that folder.

    Copy the content from .env.example into your new .env file.

    Replace "YOUR_DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN_HERE" with the token you copied from the Discord Developer Portal.

6. Install Dependencies:

    Open a terminal or command prompt in your project folder.

    Run the following command to install the required libraries:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

7. Run the Bot:

    Make sure your LM Studio server is running.

    In your terminal, run the main Python script:

    python main.py

    If everything is set up correctly, you'll see messages in your terminal indicating the bot has logged in.

8. Talk to Your Bot:

    Go to a channel in your Discord server.

    Mention your bot and ask it a question. For example: @YourBotName What is the capital of France?

    The bot will show a "thinking..." status and then reply with the answer from your local language model!
